README.md, before:

# ansible-role-kubernetes-worker

This Ansible role is used in [Kubernetes the not so hard way with Ansible - Worker](https://www.tauceti.blog/posts/kubernetes-the-not-so-hard-way-with-ansible-worker-2020/). This Ansible role setup Kubernetes worker nodes. For more information please see [Kubernetes the not so hard way with Ansible - Worker](https://www.tauceti.blog/posts/kubernetes-the-not-so-hard-way-with-ansible-worker-2020/).

## Versions

I tag every release and try to stay with [semantic versioning](http://semver.org). If you want to use the role I recommend to checkout the latest tag. The master branch is basically development while the tags mark stable releases. But in general I try to keep master in good shape too. A tag `29.1.0+1.32.9` means this is release `29.1.0` of this role and it's meant to be used with Kubernetes version `1.32.9` (but should work with any K8s 1.31.x release of course). If the role itself changes `X.Y.Z` before `+` will increase. If the Kubernetes version changes `X.Y.Z` after `+` will increase too. This allows to tag bugfixes and new major versions of the role while it's still developed for a specific Kubernetes release. That's especially useful for Kubernetes major releases with breaking changes.

## Requirements

This playbook expects that you already have rolled out the Kubernetes controller components (see [kubernetes-controller](https://github.com/githubixx/ansible-role-kubernetes-controller) and [Kubernetes the not so hard way with Ansible - Control plane](https://www.tauceti.blog/post/kubernetes-the-not-so-hard-way-with-ansible-control-plane/).

You also need [containerd](https://github.com/githubixx/ansible-role-containerd), [CNI plugins](https://github.com/githubixx/ansible-role-cni) and [runc](https://github.com/githubixx/ansible-role-runc) installed. To enable Kubernetes `Pods` to communicate between different hosts it makes sense to install [Cilium](https://galaxy.ansible.com/githubixx/cilium_kubernetes) later once the worker nodes are running e.g. Of course `Calico`, `WeaveNet`, `kube-router` or [flannel](https://galaxy.ansible.com/githubixx/flanneld) or other Kubernetes network solutions are valid options.

## Supported OS

- Ubuntu 22.04 (Jammy Jellyfish)
- Ubuntu 24.04 (Noble Numbat) (recommended)

## Changelog

**Change history:**

See full [CHANGELOG.md](https://github.com/githubixx/ansible-role-kubernetes-worker/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)

**IMPORTANT** Version `24.0.0+1.27.8` had a lot of potential breaking changes. So if you upgrade from a version < `24.0.0+1.27.8` please read the CHANGELOG of that version too!

**Recent changes:**

## 29.1.0+1.32.9

- **UPDATE**
  - update `k8s_ctl_release` to `1.32.9`

- **MOLECULE**
  - install `python3-kubernetes` package instead `kubernetes` Pip in `prepare.yml`

## 29.0.0+1.32.8

- **BREAKING**
  - Removed Ubuntu 20.04 because reached end of life

- **UPDATE**
  - update `k8s_worker_release` to `1.32.8`
  - `kubelet.service.j2`: Update `kubelet` systemd service file. Utilize the systemd watchdog capability to restart the kubelet when the kubelet health check fails, and limit the maximum number of restarts within a given time period. This can enhance the reliability of the kubelet to some extent (see [integrate kubelet with the systemd watchdog](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/127566)):
    - Changed: `Restart=on-failure` -> `Restart=always`
    - Changed: `RestartSec=5` -> `RestartSec=10`
    - Added: `WatchdogSec=30s`

- **MOLECULE**
  - Removed Ubuntu 20.04 because reached end of life
  - Fix `ansible-lint` issues

## 28.0.1+1.31.11

- **UPDATE**
  - update `k8s_worker_release` to `1.31.11`

## 28.0.0+1.31.5

- **UPDATE**
  - update `k8s_worker_release` to `1.31.5`

## 27.0.1+1.30.9

- **UPDATE**
  - update `k8s_worker_release` to `1.30.9`

## 27.0.0+1.30.5

- **UPDATE**
  - update `k8s_worker_release` to `1.30.5`

- **OTHER CHANGES**
  - support Ubuntu 24.04
  - update `.yamllint`

## Installation

- Directly download from Github (Change into Ansible roles directory before cloning. You can figure out the role path by using `ansible-config dump | grep DEFAULT_ROLES_PATH` command):
`git clone https://github.com/githubixx/ansible-role-kubernetes-worker.git githubixx.kubernetes_worker`

- Via `ansible-galaxy` command and download directly from Ansible Galaxy:
`ansible-galaxy install role githubixx.kubernetes_worker`

- Create a `requirements.yml` file with the following content (this will download the role from Github) and install with
`ansible-galaxy role install -r requirements.yml` (change `version` if needed):

```yaml
---
roles:
  - name: githubixx.kubernetes_worker
    src: https://github.com/githubixx/ansible-role-kubernetes-worker.git
    version: 29.1.0+1.32.9
```

## Role Variables

```yaml
# The base directory for Kubernetes configuration and certificate files for
# everything worker nodes related. After the playbook is done this directory
# contains various sub-folders.
k8s_worker_conf_dir: "/etc/kubernetes/worker"

# All certificate files (Private Key Infrastructure related) specified in
# "k8s_worker_certificates" (see "vars/main.yml") will be stored here.
# Owner and group of this new directory will be "root". File permissions
# will be "0640".
k8s_worker_pki_dir: "{{ k8s_worker_conf_dir }}/pki"

# The directory to store the Kubernetes binaries (see "k8s_worker_binaries"
# variable in "vars/main.yml"). Owner and group of this new directory
# will be "root" in both cases. Permissions for this directory will be "0755".
#
# NOTE: The default directory "/usr/local/bin" normally already exists on every
# Linux installation with the owner, group and permissions mentioned above. If
# your current settings are different consider a different directory. But make sure
# that the new directory is included in your "$PATH" variable value.
k8s_worker_bin_dir: "/usr/local/bin"

# K8s release
k8s_worker_release: "1.32.9"

# The interface on which the Kubernetes services should listen on. As all cluster
# communication should use a VPN interface the interface name is
# normally "wg0" (WireGuard),"peervpn0" (PeerVPN) or "tap0".
#
# The network interface on which the Kubernetes worker services should
# listen on. That is:
#
# - kube-proxy
# - kubelet
#
k8s_interface: "eth0"

# The directory from where to copy the K8s certificates. By default this
# will expand to user's LOCAL $HOME (the user that run's "ansible-playbook ..."
# plus "/k8s/certs". That means if the user's $HOME directory is e.g.
# "/home/da_user" then "k8s_ca_conf_directory" will have a value of
# "/home/da_user/k8s/certs".
k8s_ca_conf_directory: "{{ '~/k8s/certs' | expanduser }}"

# The IP address or hostname of the Kubernetes API endpoint. This variable
# is used by "kube-proxy" and "kubelet" to connect to the "kube-apiserver"
# (Kubernetes API server).
#
# By default the first host in the Ansible group "k8s_controller" is
# specified here. NOTE: This setting is not fault tolerant! That means
# if the first host in the Ansible group "k8s_controller" is down
# the worker node and its workload continue working but the worker
# node doesn't receive any updates from Kubernetes API server.
#
# If you have a loadbalancer that distributes traffic between all
# Kubernetes API servers it should be specified here (either its IP
# address or the DNS name). But you need to make sure that the IP
# address or the DNS name you want to use here is included in the
# Kubernetes API server TLS certificate (see "k8s_apiserver_cert_hosts"
# variable of https://github.com/githubixx/ansible-role-kubernetes-ca
# role). If it's not specified you'll get certificate errors in the
# logs of the services mentioned above.
k8s_worker_api_endpoint_host: "{% set controller_host = groups['k8s_controller'][0] %}{{ hostvars[controller_host]['ansible_' + hostvars[controller_host]['k8s_interface']].ipv4.address }}"

# As above just for the port. It specifies on which port the
# Kubernetes API servers are listening. Again if there is a loadbalancer
# in place that distributes the requests to the Kubernetes API servers
# put the port of the loadbalancer here.
k8s_worker_api_endpoint_port: "6443"

# OS packages needed on a Kubernetes worker node. You can add additional
# packages at any time. But please be aware if you remove one or more from
# the default list your worker node might not work as expected or doesn't work
# at all.
k8s_worker_os_packages:
  - ebtables
  - ethtool
  - ipset
  - conntrack
  - iptables
  - iptstate
  - netstat-nat
  - socat
  - netbase

# Directory to store kubelet configuration
k8s_worker_kubelet_conf_dir: "{{ k8s_worker_conf_dir }}/kubelet"

# kubelet settings
#
# If you want to enable the use of "RuntimeDefault" as the default seccomp
# profile for all workloads add these settings to "k8s_worker_kubelet_settings":
#
# "seccomp-default": ""
#
# Also see:
# https://kubernetes.io/docs/tutorials/security/seccomp/#enable-the-use-of-runtimedefault-as-the-default-seccomp-profile-for-all-workloads
k8s_worker_kubelet_settings:
  "config": "{{ k8s_worker_kubelet_conf_dir }}/kubelet-config.yaml"
  "node-ip": "{{ hostvars[inventory_hostname]['ansible_' + k8s_interface].ipv4.address }}"
  "kubeconfig": "{{ k8s_worker_kubelet_conf_dir }}/kubeconfig"

# kubelet kubeconfig
k8s_worker_kubelet_conf_yaml: |
  kind: KubeletConfiguration
  apiVersion: kubelet.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
  address: {{ hostvars[inventory_hostname]['ansible_' + k8s_interface].ipv4.address }}
  authentication:
    anonymous:
      enabled: false
    webhook:
      enabled: true
    x509:
      clientCAFile: "{{ k8s_worker_pki_dir }}/ca-k8s-apiserver.pem"
  authorization:
    mode: Webhook
  clusterDomain: "cluster.local"
  clusterDNS:
    - "10.32.0.254"
  failSwapOn: true
  healthzBindAddress: "{{ hostvars[inventory_hostname]['ansible_' + k8s_interface].ipv4.address }}"
  healthzPort: 10248
  runtimeRequestTimeout: "15m"
  serializeImagePulls: false
  tlsCertFile: "{{ k8s_worker_pki_dir }}/cert-{{ inventory_hostname }}.pem"
  tlsPrivateKeyFile: "{{ k8s_worker_pki_dir }}/cert-{{ inventory_hostname }}-key.pem"
  cgroupDriver: "systemd"
  registerNode: true
  containerRuntimeEndpoint: "unix:///run/containerd/containerd.sock"

# Directory to store kube-proxy configuration
k8s_worker_kubeproxy_conf_dir: "{{ k8s_worker_conf_dir }}/kube-proxy"

# kube-proxy settings
k8s_worker_kubeproxy_settings:
  "config": "{{ k8s_worker_kubeproxy_conf_dir }}/kubeproxy-config.yaml"

k8s_worker_kubeproxy_conf_yaml: |
  kind: KubeProxyConfiguration
  apiVersion: kubeproxy.config.k8s.io/v1alpha1
  bindAddress: {{ hostvars[inventory_hostname]['ansible_' + k8s_interface].ipv4.address }}
  clientConnection:
    kubeconfig: "{{ k8s_worker_kubeproxy_conf_dir }}/kubeconfig"
  healthzBindAddress: {{ hostvars[inventory_hostname]['ansible_' + k8s_interface].ipv4.address }}:10256
  mode: "ipvs"
  ipvs:
    minSyncPeriod: 0s
    scheduler: ""
    syncPeriod: 2s
  iptables:
    masqueradeAll: true
  clusterCIDR: "10.200.0.0/16"
```

## Dependencies

- [kubernetes_controller](https://github.com/githubixx/ansible-role-kubernetes-controller)
- [containerd](https://github.com/githubixx/ansible-role-containerd)
- [runc](https://github.com/githubixx/ansible-role-runc)
- [CNI plugins](https://github.com/githubixx/ansible-role-cni)

## Example Playbook

```yaml
- hosts: k8s_worker
  roles:
    - githubixx.kubernetes_worker
```

## Testing

This role has a small test setup that is created using [Molecule](https://github.com/ansible-community/molecule), libvirt (vagrant-libvirt) and QEMU/KVM. Please see my blog post [Testing Ansible roles with Molecule, libvirt (vagrant-libvirt) and QEMU/KVM](https://www.tauceti.blog/posts/testing-ansible-roles-with-molecule-libvirt-vagrant-qemu-kvm/) how to setup. The Molecule test configuration is in [molecule/default](https://github.com/githubixx/ansible-role-kubernetes-worker/tree/master/molecule/default).

Afterwards Molecule can be executed. This will setup a few virtual machines (VM) with supported Ubuntu OS and installs a Kubernetes cluster:

```bash
molecule converge
```

At this time the cluster isn't fully functional as a network plugin is missing e.g. So Pod to Pod communication between two different nodes isn't possible yet. To fix this the following command can be used to install [Cilium](https://github.com/githubixx/ansible-role-cilium-kubernetes) for all Kubernetes networking needs and [CoreDNS](https://github.com/githubixx/ansible-kubernetes-playbooks/tree/master/coredns) for Kubernetes DNS stuff:

```bash
molecule converge -- --extra-vars k8s_worker_setup_networking=install
```

After this you basically have a fully functional Kubernetes cluster.

A small verification step is also included:

```bash
molecule verify
```

To clean up run

```bash
molecule destroy
```

## License

GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE Version 3

## Author Information

[http://www.tauceti.blog](http://www.tauceti.blog)

Commit message:

defaults/main.yml: k8s_worker_api_endpoint_host - simplify the complex default variables for endpoint hosts to avoid nested template construction

README.md, after:

# ansible-role-kubernetes-worker

This Ansible role is used in [Kubernetes the not so hard way with Ansible - Worker](https://www.tauceti.blog/posts/kubernetes-the-not-so-hard-way-with-ansible-worker-2020/). This Ansible role setup Kubernetes worker nodes. For more information please see [Kubernetes the not so hard way with Ansible - Worker](https://www.tauceti.blog/posts/kubernetes-the-not-so-hard-way-with-ansible-worker-2020/).

## Versions

I tag every release and try to stay with [semantic versioning](http://semver.org). If you want to use the role I recommend to checkout the latest tag. The master branch is basically development while the tags mark stable releases. But in general I try to keep master in good shape too. A tag `29.1.0+1.32.9` means this is release `29.1.0` of this role and it's meant to be used with Kubernetes version `1.32.9` (but should work with any K8s 1.31.x release of course). If the role itself changes `X.Y.Z` before `+` will increase. If the Kubernetes version changes `X.Y.Z` after `+` will increase too. This allows to tag bugfixes and new major versions of the role while it's still developed for a specific Kubernetes release. That's especially useful for Kubernetes major releases with breaking changes.

## Requirements

This playbook expects that you already have rolled out the Kubernetes controller components (see [kubernetes-controller](https://github.com/githubixx/ansible-role-kubernetes-controller) and [Kubernetes the not so hard way with Ansible - Control plane](https://www.tauceti.blog/post/kubernetes-the-not-so-hard-way-with-ansible-control-plane/).

You also need [containerd](https://github.com/githubixx/ansible-role-containerd), [CNI plugins](https://github.com/githubixx/ansible-role-cni) and [runc](https://github.com/githubixx/ansible-role-runc) installed. To enable Kubernetes `Pods` to communicate between different hosts it makes sense to install [Cilium](https://galaxy.ansible.com/githubixx/cilium_kubernetes) later once the worker nodes are running e.g. Of course `Calico`, `WeaveNet`, `kube-router` or [flannel](https://galaxy.ansible.com/githubixx/flanneld) or other Kubernetes network solutions are valid options.

## Supported OS

- Ubuntu 22.04 (Jammy Jellyfish)
- Ubuntu 24.04 (Noble Numbat) (recommended)

## Changelog

**Change history:**

See full [CHANGELOG.md](https://github.com/githubixx/ansible-role-kubernetes-worker/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)

**IMPORTANT** Version `24.0.0+1.27.8` had a lot of potential breaking changes. So if you upgrade from a version < `24.0.0+1.27.8` please read the CHANGELOG of that version too!

**Recent changes:**

## 29.1.0+1.32.9

- **UPDATE**
  - update `k8s_ctl_release` to `1.32.9`

- **OTHER CHANGES**
  - `defaults/main.yml`: `k8s_worker_api_endpoint_host` - simplify the complex default variables for endpoint hosts to avoid nested template construction

- **MOLECULE**
  - install `python3-kubernetes` package instead `kubernetes` Pip in `prepare.yml`

## 29.0.0+1.32.8

- **BREAKING**
  - Removed Ubuntu 20.04 because reached end of life

- **UPDATE**
  - update `k8s_worker_release` to `1.32.8`
  - `kubelet.service.j2`: Update `kubelet` systemd service file. Utilize the systemd watchdog capability to restart the kubelet when the kubelet health check fails, and limit the maximum number of restarts within a given time period. This can enhance the reliability of the kubelet to some extent (see [integrate kubelet with the systemd watchdog](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/127566)):
    - Changed: `Restart=on-failure` -> `Restart=always`
    - Changed: `RestartSec=5` -> `RestartSec=10`
    - Added: `WatchdogSec=30s`

- **MOLECULE**
  - Removed Ubuntu 20.04 because reached end of life
  - Fix `ansible-lint` issues

## 28.0.1+1.31.11

- **UPDATE**
  - update `k8s_worker_release` to `1.31.11`

## 28.0.0+1.31.5

- **UPDATE**
  - update `k8s_worker_release` to `1.31.5`

## 27.0.1+1.30.9

- **UPDATE**
  - update `k8s_worker_release` to `1.30.9`

## 27.0.0+1.30.5

- **UPDATE**
  - update `k8s_worker_release` to `1.30.5`

- **OTHER CHANGES**
  - support Ubuntu 24.04
  - update `.yamllint`

## Installation

- Directly download from Github (Change into Ansible roles directory before cloning. You can figure out the role path by using `ansible-config dump | grep DEFAULT_ROLES_PATH` command):
`git clone https://github.com/githubixx/ansible-role-kubernetes-worker.git githubixx.kubernetes_worker`

- Via `ansible-galaxy` command and download directly from Ansible Galaxy:
`ansible-galaxy install role githubixx.kubernetes_worker`

- Create a `requirements.yml` file with the following content (this will download the role from Github) and install with
`ansible-galaxy role install -r requirements.yml` (change `version` if needed):

```yaml
---
roles:
  - name: githubixx.kubernetes_worker
    src: https://github.com/githubixx/ansible-role-kubernetes-worker.git
    version: 29.1.0+1.32.9
```

## Role Variables

```yaml
# The base directory for Kubernetes configuration and certificate files for
# everything worker nodes related. After the playbook is done this directory
# contains various sub-folders.
k8s_worker_conf_dir: "/etc/kubernetes/worker"

# All certificate files (Private Key Infrastructure related) specified in
# "k8s_worker_certificates" (see "vars/main.yml") will be stored here.
# Owner and group of this new directory will be "root". File permissions
# will be "0640".
k8s_worker_pki_dir: "{{ k8s_worker_conf_dir }}/pki"

# The directory to store the Kubernetes binaries (see "k8s_worker_binaries"
# variable in "vars/main.yml"). Owner and group of this new directory
# will be "root" in both cases. Permissions for this directory will be "0755".
#
# NOTE: The default directory "/usr/local/bin" normally already exists on every
# Linux installation with the owner, group and permissions mentioned above. If
# your current settings are different consider a different directory. But make sure
# that the new directory is included in your "$PATH" variable value.
k8s_worker_bin_dir: "/usr/local/bin"

# K8s release
k8s_worker_release: "1.32.9"

# The interface on which the Kubernetes services should listen on. As all cluster
# communication should use a VPN interface the interface name is
# normally "wg0" (WireGuard),"peervpn0" (PeerVPN) or "tap0".
#
# The network interface on which the Kubernetes worker services should
# listen on. That is:
#
# - kube-proxy
# - kubelet
#
k8s_interface: "eth0"

# The directory from where to copy the K8s certificates. By default this
# will expand to user's LOCAL $HOME (the user that run's "ansible-playbook ..."
# plus "/k8s/certs". That means if the user's $HOME directory is e.g.
# "/home/da_user" then "k8s_ca_conf_directory" will have a value of
# "/home/da_user/k8s/certs".
k8s_ca_conf_directory: "{{ '~/k8s/certs' | expanduser }}"

# The IP address or hostname of the Kubernetes API endpoint. This variable
# is used by "kube-proxy" and "kubelet" to connect to the "kube-apiserver"
# (Kubernetes API server).
#
# By default the first host in the Ansible group "k8s_controller" is
# specified here. NOTE: This setting is not fault tolerant! That means
# if the first host in the Ansible group "k8s_controller" is down
# the worker node and its workload continue working but the worker
# node doesn't receive any updates from Kubernetes API server.
#
# If you have a loadbalancer that distributes traffic between all
# Kubernetes API servers it should be specified here (either its IP
# address or the DNS name). But you need to make sure that the IP
# address or the DNS name you want to use here is included in the
# Kubernetes API server TLS certificate (see "k8s_apiserver_cert_hosts"
# variable of https://github.com/githubixx/ansible-role-kubernetes-ca
# role). If it's not specified you'll get certificate errors in the
# logs of the services mentioned above.
k8s_worker_api_endpoint_host: "{% set controller_host = groups['k8s_controller'][0] %}{{ hostvars[controller_host]['ansible_' + hostvars[controller_host]['k8s_interface']].ipv4.address }}"

# As above just for the port. It specifies on which port the
# Kubernetes API servers are listening. Again if there is a loadbalancer
# in place that distributes the requests to the Kubernetes API servers
# put the port of the loadbalancer here.
k8s_worker_api_endpoint_port: "6443"

# OS packages needed on a Kubernetes worker node. You can add additional
# packages at any time. But please be aware if you remove one or more from
# the default list your worker node might not work as expected or doesn't work
# at all.
k8s_worker_os_packages:
  - ebtables
  - ethtool
  - ipset
  - conntrack
  - iptables
  - iptstate
  - netstat-nat
  - socat
  - netbase

# Directory to store kubelet configuration
k8s_worker_kubelet_conf_dir: "{{ k8s_worker_conf_dir }}/kubelet"

# kubelet settings
#
# If you want to enable the use of "RuntimeDefault" as the default seccomp
# profile for all workloads add these settings to "k8s_worker_kubelet_settings":
#
# "seccomp-default": ""
#
# Also see:
# https://kubernetes.io/docs/tutorials/security/seccomp/#enable-the-use-of-runtimedefault-as-the-default-seccomp-profile-for-all-workloads
k8s_worker_kubelet_settings:
  "config": "{{ k8s_worker_kubelet_conf_dir }}/kubelet-config.yaml"
  "node-ip": "{{ hostvars[inventory_hostname]['ansible_' + k8s_interface].ipv4.address }}"
  "kubeconfig": "{{ k8s_worker_kubelet_conf_dir }}/kubeconfig"

# kubelet kubeconfig
k8s_worker_kubelet_conf_yaml: |
  kind: KubeletConfiguration
  apiVersion: kubelet.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
  address: {{ hostvars[inventory_hostname]['ansible_' + k8s_interface].ipv4.address }}
  authentication:
    anonymous:
      enabled: false
    webhook:
      enabled: true
    x509:
      clientCAFile: "{{ k8s_worker_pki_dir }}/ca-k8s-apiserver.pem"
  authorization:
    mode: Webhook
  clusterDomain: "cluster.local"
  clusterDNS:
    - "10.32.0.254"
  failSwapOn: true
  healthzBindAddress: "{{ hostvars[inventory_hostname]['ansible_' + k8s_interface].ipv4.address }}"
  healthzPort: 10248
  runtimeRequestTimeout: "15m"
  serializeImagePulls: false
  tlsCertFile: "{{ k8s_worker_pki_dir }}/cert-{{ inventory_hostname }}.pem"
  tlsPrivateKeyFile: "{{ k8s_worker_pki_dir }}/cert-{{ inventory_hostname }}-key.pem"
  cgroupDriver: "systemd"
  registerNode: true
  containerRuntimeEndpoint: "unix:///run/containerd/containerd.sock"

# Directory to store kube-proxy configuration
k8s_worker_kubeproxy_conf_dir: "{{ k8s_worker_conf_dir }}/kube-proxy"

# kube-proxy settings
k8s_worker_kubeproxy_settings:
  "config": "{{ k8s_worker_kubeproxy_conf_dir }}/kubeproxy-config.yaml"

k8s_worker_kubeproxy_conf_yaml: |
  kind: KubeProxyConfiguration
  apiVersion: kubeproxy.config.k8s.io/v1alpha1
  bindAddress: {{ hostvars[inventory_hostname]['ansible_' + k8s_interface].ipv4.address }}
  clientConnection:
    kubeconfig: "{{ k8s_worker_kubeproxy_conf_dir }}/kubeconfig"
  healthzBindAddress: {{ hostvars[inventory_hostname]['ansible_' + k8s_interface].ipv4.address }}:10256
  mode: "ipvs"
  ipvs:
    minSyncPeriod: 0s
    scheduler: ""
    syncPeriod: 2s
  iptables:
    masqueradeAll: true
  clusterCIDR: "10.200.0.0/16"
```

## Dependencies

- [kubernetes_controller](https://github.com/githubixx/ansible-role-kubernetes-controller)
- [containerd](https://github.com/githubixx/ansible-role-containerd)
- [runc](https://github.com/githubixx/ansible-role-runc)
- [CNI plugins](https://github.com/githubixx/ansible-role-cni)

## Example Playbook

```yaml
- hosts: k8s_worker
  roles:
    - githubixx.kubernetes_worker
```

## Testing

This role has a small test setup that is created using [Molecule](https://github.com/ansible-community/molecule), libvirt (vagrant-libvirt) and QEMU/KVM. Please see my blog post [Testing Ansible roles with Molecule, libvirt (vagrant-libvirt) and QEMU/KVM](https://www.tauceti.blog/posts/testing-ansible-roles-with-molecule-libvirt-vagrant-qemu-kvm/) how to setup. The Molecule test configuration is in [molecule/default](https://github.com/githubixx/ansible-role-kubernetes-worker/tree/master/molecule/default).

Afterwards Molecule can be executed. This will setup a few virtual machines (VM) with supported Ubuntu OS and installs a Kubernetes cluster:

```bash
molecule converge
```

At this time the cluster isn't fully functional as a network plugin is missing e.g. So Pod to Pod communication between two different nodes isn't possible yet. To fix this the following command can be used to install [Cilium](https://github.com/githubixx/ansible-role-cilium-kubernetes) for all Kubernetes networking needs and [CoreDNS](https://github.com/githubixx/ansible-kubernetes-playbooks/tree/master/coredns) for Kubernetes DNS stuff:

```bash
molecule converge -- --extra-vars k8s_worker_setup_networking=install
```

After this you basically have a fully functional Kubernetes cluster.

A small verification step is also included:

```bash
molecule verify
```

To clean up run

```bash
molecule destroy
```

## License

GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE Version 3

## Author Information

[http://www.tauceti.blog](http://www.tauceti.blog)
